# Cognite DWSIM connector documentation

## Requirements
**Minimum hardware requirements**

- 4 vCPUs (general-purpose VM)
- 16 GB RAM
- 256 GB HD for logging and storage

The requirements for DWSIM may be higher, should accommodate for that

**Software requirements**

- Windows Server 2016 or higher
- DWSIM installed: The connector was built to integrate with DWSIM version 8.4. Newer versions may work, but they are not tested.
- .NET 6.0 runtime

**Additional CDF requirements**

- If VM is behind a firewall, allow access to endpoint: https://{cluster}.cognitedata.com. For example, if the project is in the Europe 2 (Microsoft) cluster, then this endpoint is https://westeurope-1.cognitedata.com.
- A Dataset to associate with the simulator data
- App registration for the connector, belonging to a group with the following capabilities:
  - ``files:read``, ``files:write``
  - ``projects:list``
  - ``groups:list``
  - ``timeseries:read``, ``timeseries:write``
  - ``datasets:read``
  - ``extractionpipelines:read``, ``extractionpipelines:write``

## Installation
Running the installer on a Windows operating system will present the user with a wizard to guide her through the installation process. The user can then select the destination folder where the connector will be installed. By default, this is **C:\\Cognite\\**. Inside this folder, a working directory is created, named **DwsimConnector**.

## Configuration
To configure the connector, the user must create a configuration file in the working directory. You can find examples of such files in the **config** folder:

  - ``config.example.yml``: A minimum configuration file that is ready to use, with only the required properties.

The ``config.example.yml`` file can be copied to the working directory and renamed to ``config.yml``. Then, it can be opened and modified in a text editor. In this file, the configuration contained within **${}** indicates that the value is read from environment variables. The user can set these environment variables or edit the values directly.

Once the configuration is done, the user can start the service using **Windows’ Services** application. Find the entry named **Cognite DWSIM Connector {version}** and select **Start the service**. The status will change to **Running**. The service is configured to restart automatically in case of errors or if the host machine restarts. Application log files should have been created in the configured folder.

## Uninstalling and updating
The same MSI installer can be executed again to present the user with the option to uninstall the connector.

Removing the installation will delete the installed binaries, remove the service and clean the application registry. The installation, however, is not deleted and still contains the configuration file, logs, and application data generated by the connector. If the connector is later re-installed, it can resume its operation using the state saved there.

When a new version of DWSIM connector is available, the MSI installer of the new version can be executed to upgrade the connector to the new version. After the upgrade, the service will not be automatically restarted, so it needs to be manually started.